## CS153 Homework 1
Yidi Wang <br/>
862114701 <br/>

I.
a. An asynchronous trap will occur when "ctrl+c" is pressed (which is an external event) to terminate a process. This will cause a switch to kernel space, and the system will call exit() system call. 

b. A synchronous trap will occur in this case. A context switch will happen, and this process will go to "ready" state from "running".

c. A synchronous trap will occur in this case, and it is from a instruction. This is a deliberate action from the kernel space, and write() system call will be executed.

II. 
a). A system call is not required in this case. The data is in the buffer now (either stack or heap), which is in the user space.

b). A system call is required in this case. Write system call will write from buffer to files.

c). A system call is not required in this case. A hardware interrupt will handle this event.

d). A system call is required when a network packet is received. A socket will be created by accept() system call, and the process will do fork() to handle the client request. <br/>

III. 
a). All the values that could be printed in main are: 

1. If [dee, dee, dum, dum] is scheduled: -2
2. If [dee, dum, dee, dum] is scheduled: 16
3. If [dee, dum, dum, dee] is scheduled: 4
4. Else: 0

b). In this case, variable "i" could either keep its current value or be initialized to zero when the processor switches between threads.

1. If [dee, dum, dum] is scheduled: 1
2. If [dum, dee, dum] is scheduled: 0
3. If [dee, dee, dum, dum] is scheduled: -2
4. If [dee, dee, dum, dee] is scheduled: 1
5. If [dum, dee, dee] is scheduled: 1
6. If [dum, dum, dee, dee] is scheduled: 16
7. If [dum, dum, dee, dum] is scheduled: 3

c). (i is not global) A print of "0" will happen if the scheduling is [dum, dum, dee, dee], [dum, dee, dee, dum], or [dum, dee, dum, dee].

1. [dum, dum, dee, dee] 
   * Thread "dum" switches from "running" to "ready"
   * Thread "dee" switches from "ready" to "running"
2. [dum, dee, dee, dum]
   * Thread "dum" switches from "running" to "ready"
   * Thread "dee" switches from "ready" to "running", than to "ready"
   * Thread "dum" switches from "ready" to "running"
3. [dum, dee, dum, dee]
   * Thread "dum" switches from "running" to "ready"
   * Thread "dee" switches from "ready" to "running", than to "ready"
   * Thread "dum" switches from "ready" to "running", than to "ready"
   * Thread "dee" switches from "ready" to "running" <br/>

IV. 
a). Initially, there is only one process, and finally, there will be three processes; thus, two processes are created.

b). An output could happen as long as "4" is following two "2"'s.

* 3, 2, 2, 4
* 2, 2, 4, 3
* 2, 3, 2, 4
* 2, 2, 3, 4

c).  An output could happen as long as "4" is following at least one "2".

* 3, 2, 4, 2
* 2, 4, 2, 3
* 2, 4, 3, 2

In b, the parent process will wait for the child process to exit. During the waiting time, it is suspended, and is never able to execute the final "print" if the child is still running. But in this case, the parent might be scheduled to execute first since it will not go into sleeping.

